5-9-25

  keyword - as it is defined in python ( cannot be altered or changed )
  built in functions - provided as keywords by python
  variable - user defined ( change as per demand)
  float for smaller decimal series , double for larger decible series
  (TO CHECK DOUBLE DATATYPE IN PYTHON AND OVEFRALL)
  int,float,str,boolean,double - major datatypes in python
  Python as Object oriented programme
  (https://www.google.com/search?q=how+does+object+orientation+programming+help+in+python+to+not+add+the+datatype&oq=how+does+object+orientation+programming+help+in+python+to+not+add+the+datatype+&gs_lcrp=EgZjaHJvbWUyBggAEEUYQNIBCTExODk3ajBqOagCBrACAfEFihYXBa-z5ow&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8)
  Operation - 
          arithmetic : % for remainder , / for division 
        , logical , relational ,  bitwise , unary , binary , conditional (ternary)
  Implicit and Explicit Typecasting 

  %- modulo operator gives remainder as the output
  // - floor division operatos , gives only the Numeric value and not the decimal

9-9-25
  [] - subscript operator - in slicing 
  #Python is the only lang that supports bi-directional indexing 
  positive indexing and negative indexing
  in slicing the LHS to double colon is inclusive in nature whereas the RHS 
  is exclusive in nature , because we start the indexing with 0 , thus total no of elements
  in the indexing is N+1 where N is the last indexed number given to the data.

12-9-25:
  in - keyword 
  i /j or any variable used before in keyword is the ITERATING VARIABLE
  range takes 3 values , start , end and the step value.
  before while loop the decription of a variable is 
  INITIALIZATION of the varibale in that while loop case.
  while has increment and decrement of loop 

  Dry-run = understanding flow of program and the output it will give 

15-9-25:

  Operator Overloading :
    when same operator is used in different context which so ever operator it may be .

  Data structure:
    Data structure is the study of in how many variations can you store data and retrive it 
    when need arises 
    most diff is to linerlly store and delivery the data.
    The way in which you magae your data toa access it retireve it in minimum time , with less time and data 
    complexity.
    Patterns : (for datra organising)
    Linear pattern:
    Group pattern:
    Irregular pattern:

    Time compelxity - RAM
    Space complexity - SSD
    Comp sci exhausts itself on this since eons it was built.
    logic arisen from coding - data stcructure.

  We are following Arrays rn as it follows the basic real life method of linear data arrangement .

  Arrays:
    Array , tuples , list , dictionary , set are multiple datatypes that hold more than one data , 
    provided to us for holding value. LInklist Queue STACK , Graph - data structures 
    [] - subscript operator
      In indexing tpo access elements , in slicing to fetch range of elements , in list to form a list and 
      hold values , in numpy/pandas library there are other roles of it .
    Point being a single operator has multiple uses or meaning depending on the logic you are implementing
    it with.

    Array is a data st in which elements can be defined , more than 1 data elemnts in a single variable like we 
    did in list , we use it using NUMpy library in python (array).
    One single datatype in arrays , cannot do mixing or multiple datatypes in ARRAY ,.
    thats its CONS - in other languages , its suported in python though ?
    We define array not directly but using the subscript operator and numpy imported , we are using it 
    at default level as a list and then fetching numpy library to make it into an array via numpy library , thus 
    the array in working in python.
    Numpy stands for - numerical python.

  Coding types :
    Service bsed coding - using templates and deploying it to the client.
    Product based coding (data structure coding) - done in leet code like competition.

  In Web developing - HTMl we use data structures ?
  Data st relating to coding at backend, heart of coding is data st.
  We skip data st in real life as it is related to product based coding that is comeptitive coding , 
  it teacehs that in a real life problem statement how to convert it into coding .
  Converting IRL issues in mathematical notation and then coverting it into code.

  Data st used in server side to handel the data od user and absorb/adsorb it to produce output,
  that is in Product based coding.


  Lists are mutable in nature .

17-9-25

  l.append
  del l[]
  l.remove()
  list photos STACK data structur , FILO- LIFO

  insertion by append and insert.
  append by default adds it to the end of list
  Adol , simuntaneously you cna insert using insert built in function 
  used like : l.insert(index,'value')

  extend function
  adds a list to another list , concatination 
  clubbing and rearrangement = addition and concatination 

  del keyword can take the input in slicing as well .
  remove takes 1 value, and it has a set datatype , it consideres the value not as the value but as another 
  datatype when given in multiple in anywat.
  del takes multiple values 
  insert adds at the given index 

  #push and pop are two built in fucntion whose concept is realted with datastructre STACK 
  push insert at the initial position, ALWAYS

  count funcn - gives the no of elemts stated in it

  sort fucntion 
  sorts it in order but doesnt show in same line or on thoe lines as its a fucntion to work on
  not a function that returns something.

22-9-25

  Time consumption is great in list as loop is neccessary for flexible retirval incersion and traversal of data.
  Thus other Datastructures are used instead in most places , such as STACK , TUPLE , ARRAY ..
  Stack to is a ienar datastructure .

  Push is not in python but in stack , its limitation is that always push will be done at the end same as pop , hence push works 
  like append in this sense , insert whereas gives possibility of enabling user to modify the values in between as well.

  Dictionary is HASH Datastrcutre (Hash table) .


24-9-25

  Dictionary - key value pair , key cant repeat itself must be unique at all times.
  No concept of numeric indexing in dict. but with the key we can do indexing , like finding data in a large datastructre
  mutable in nature , glitch is keys once defined must be unique.
  Loop - way in which we can traverse a data st.
  traversing : visiting each and every data indexing in a data st.

  d.items() - gives key nd value pair
  d.keys() - gives keys
  d.values() - gives values
  del d['key']
  d.pop('key') - returns popped value , as a blank call also it del the last pair
  d.popitem() - removes last item , doesnt take any value while calling.
  d.update(dict2)

  Dictionary is not sorted by nature 
  before python 3.7 every dict data st is jumbled.

26-9-25

  Functions:
  creating package in simple terms 
  diving given code in modules
  dont activate unless called for .
  divides code in logical structure.

  standalone function:
    no value passed , no arguemnts in the () - brackets.

  docstring
    can declare a docstring after writing the def statement of the fucntion , after the termination operator
    in the next line.
    It is like a comment only
  
  Fucntions is like a subscript unless it is called.

  Parameters And Arguments:

    Parameters: In the defining statement of funcn
    Arguments : While calling the function
    can be interchanged but the difference exists 
    In Python, parameters and arguments can be referred to by other names depending on their context:

      Parameters (defined in the function declaration) are sometimes called:

      Formal parameters
      Placeholders
      Arguments (values passed to the function during a call) are sometimes called:

      Actual arguments
      Inputs
      These terms are often used interchangeably, but the distinction lies in whether you're referring to the function definition (parameters) or the function call (arguments).

  USE:
  hELPS IN CODE REDUNDANCY 

  Standalone 
  Positional Arguments 
  Arbitrary Posititonal Arguments  
     *args
     add *(parameter) for infi no of arguments to take while functions arguments
  Keyword  Args
    *krgs
  
  Arbitraty KEyword Arguments 
    **kwarg

  
Miscellaneous:
  Data st :
  sorting searchign and arrangement-storage of data.
   Bubble Sorting:
    list in list in list in - like MLM.
  Merge sorting
  Insertion sorting
  Bucket sorting


Comprehension

  List comprehension- in list 

  lambda funciton - list comprehension in a fucntion 
  lambda means - one line logic in the code

  limitaiion : can only be used when the the logic is one liner

